feat(curriculum): adding searching and sorting review page (#61774)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/review-searching-and-sorting-algorithms/67f39de5ff88202c94798189.md

# --description--

## Searching Algorithms

> As the name implies, searching algorithms let you search for a target within a certain list of items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searching algorithms let you search for a target within a certain list of items.
```

In computer science, there are two searching algorithms you should know about. They are **linear search** and **binary search** algorithms. It is important to understand the differences between the two algorithms and when to use each one.

### Linear Search

- Linear search iterates through a list of items, checking each item from the beginning until the target item is found.
- If the target item is found, the index where it is located in the list is returned.
- If the target is not found, it returns `-1`, which means **invalid index** in most programming languages.
- Because linear search checks each item until it finds the target, it is not efficient for a large list of items.

> - The space complexity of linear search is `O(1)` because it doesn't require any additional space to search through the list.

Reviewer: The time complexity is missing.

### Binary Search

- Binary search works by dividing a list of items in half, and checking if the target value is in the middle of the list.
- The condition for binary search to work is that the items in the list must be in ascending order.
- Binary search is a more efficient algorithm for searching through a large list of items because it divides the list of items in half and ignores any half where the target is not found.
- If the target item is found in the middle of the list, the index of the target item is returned.
- If the item is not found, the algorithm checks if the target item is in the left or right half of the list.
- It continues to divide the remaining parts of the list into halves until the target item is found.
- If the target item is finally not found in the list, it returns `-1`

> - The space complexity of binary search is `O(1)` because it doesn't require any additional space to search through the list.

Reviewer: Time complexity is missing.

### How Linear Search Differs from Binary Search 

> - As you've already read, binary search is more ideal for a large list of items compared to linear search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Binary search is more suitable for a large list of items compared to linear search.
```

- The time complexity of linear search is  `O(n)` because the time it takes to search through the list grows linearly with the size of the list.
- The time complexity of binary search is `O(log n)` because the time it takes to search through the list grows logarithmically with the size of the list.

## Sorting Algorithms and Divide-and-Conquer

In computer science, divide-and-conquer is a technique used to break down a problem into smaller sub-problems so they are easier to solve. Recursion is the technique often employed in divide-and-conquer, and divide-and-conquer is a powerful strategy used to implement many efficient sorting algorithms like merge sort.

### Merge Sort

- Merge sort is a sorting algorithm that follows the divide-and-conquer approach.
- It works by recursively dividing a list into smaller sub-lists until each sub-list contains only one element.

> - It then repeatedly merges the sub-lists back together in a sorted order.

Reviewer: time and space complexity is missing.
